neoscore
========

.. role:: subtitle-slogan
   :class: subtitle-slogan

:subtitle-slogan:`notation without bars`

Neoscore is a Python programming library for creating scores without limits. While other notation software assumes scores follow a narrow set of rules, neoscore treats scores as shapes and text with as few assumptions as possible. In neoscore, staves and noteheads are just one way of writing. In addition to conventional export formats, it features an experimental runtime allowing interactive live coding and animation.

Neoscore provides a core set of graphics primitives and a decent collection of traditional western notation objects built on them. Many users will find these out-of-the-box capabilities are everything they need for their project, but for everyone else, neoscore provides a rich API for building new notation systems on top of it.

We differ from traditional score-writing systems in many important aspects. Neoscore deliberately lacks support for things like audio playback, MusicXML support, MIDI import, automatic score layout, and part extraction. We treat traditional western notation as a second class citizen. In general, if your score *can* be written with traditional score-writers you're better off using one. But if your notation speaks in dots and squiggles, grids and colors, bouncing barlines and unruly clefs—you're in the right place!

.. toctree::
   getting_started.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Core Concepts

   core_concepts/graphical_notation.rst
   core_concepts/document_tree.rst
   core_concepts/text_and_fonts.rst
   core_concepts/paths.rst
   core_concepts/brushes_and_pens.rst
   core_concepts/music_text.rst
   core_concepts/flowables.rst
   core_concepts/headers_and_footers.rst
   core_concepts/export.rst
   core_concepts/interactivity.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: Western Notation

   western/western.rst
   western/staff.rst
   western/notes_chords_rests.rst
   western/chordrests_advanced.rst
   western/beams.rst
   western/expressive_text.rst
   western/spanners.rst

.. toctree::
   :caption: API Reference

   _autogenerated_api_src/neoscore.core
   _autogenerated_api_src/neoscore.western
   _autogenerated_api_src/neoscore.interface


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
